{\rtf1\ansi\deff0 {\fonttbl {\f0 Helvetica;}{\f1 Helvetica-Bold;}}
\viewkind4\uc0\pard\f0\fs22

\f1\fs28 P!NG Quick Start Guide\f0\fs22\par
\par

\f1\fs24 Install & Activate\f0\fs22\par
\par
1. \b Install\b0  the plugin by running the .pkg installer. It installs to /Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/ (AU and VST3).\par
2. \b Restart\b0  your DAW (Logic Pro, Ableton, etc.) so it detects P!NG.\par
3. \b Activate\b0  on first use: enter your name and serial number in the activation window, then click Activate.\par
\par
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640
\line \par

\f1\fs24 IR Folder\f0\fs22\par
\par
P!NG loads impulse responses from:\par
\par
\b ~/Documents/P!NG/IRs\b0\par
\par
(Create this folder and add .wav or .aiff files if it's empty.)\par
\par
\line \par

\f1\fs24 Main Workflow\f0\fs22\par
\par
1. \b Insert\b0  P!NG on a track or aux.\par
2. \b Choose an IR\b0  from the dropdown next to the waveform (or select \b Synthesized IR\b0  if you've just created one).\par
3. \b Adjust Dry/Wet\b0  - the main mix between dry and wet signal.\par
4. \b Use Predelay, Damping, Width\b0  and other controls to shape the reverb.\par
5. \b Save presets\b0  from the preset menu to recall your favourite settings.\par
\par
\line \par

\f1\fs24 IR Synthesiser (Build Your Own IRs)\f0\fs22\par
\par
1. Click \b IR Synth\b0  to open the synthesiser.\par
2. Use the \b Placement\b0  tab to set room shape, size, and move speaker/mic pucks on the floor plan.\par
3. Use the \b Character\b0  tab to pick floor, ceiling, and wall materials, plus diffusion, audience, vault type, etc.\par
4. Click \b Preview\b0  to render and hear the IR. Stay on the synth page to tweak.\par
5. When satisfied, type a name and click \b Save\b0  - the IR is saved to the IR folder and appears in both lists.\par
6. Click \b Done\b0  to return to the main UI with your new IR active.\par
\par
\line \par

\f1\fs24 Tips\f0\fs22\par
\par
- \b Reverse\b0  flips the IR in time; useful for preverb-style effects.\par
- \b Early Reflections\b0  and \b Tail\b0  sliders balance the early and late parts of the IR.\par
- \b EQ\b0  at the bottom shapes the reverb tone - drag bands on the graph or use band 1/2/3.\par
- Presets store IR choice, synth params, and all main controls.\par
}
