{\rtf1\ansi\deff0 {\fonttbl {\f0 Helvetica;}{\f1 Helvetica-Bold;}}
\viewkind4\uc0\pard\f0\fs22

\f1\fs28 P!NG User Manual\f0\fs22\par
\par

\f1\fs24 1. Overview\f0\fs22\par
\par
P!NG is an impulse response (IR) reverb plugin for macOS. It convolves your audio with IR files to add reverb, and includes a built-in IR synthesiser to generate new IRs from room geometry, materials, and speaker/mic placement.\par
\par
\line \par

\f1\fs24 2. Main Interface\f0\fs22\par
\par
\i [Insert screenshot: Main P!NG interface showing top row (preset, metres), centre knobs, IR selector, waveform, and EQ]\i0\par
\par

\f1\fs22 2.1 Top Row\f0\fs22\par
\par
\b Preset menu\b0  - Load or save presets. Presets store all settings including IR choice and IR Synth parameters.\par
\b Save preset\b0  - Saves the current settings under the name shown in the preset combo (editable).\par
\b Output level metres\b0  - Visual feedback of wet output level.\par
\par

\f1\fs22 2.2 IR Selection & Waveform\f0\fs22\par
\par
\b IR dropdown\b0  - Choose an IR from your folder. Synthesized IR appears when you've just created an IR with the IR Synth and haven't saved it yet.\par
\b IR Synth button\b0  - Opens the IR Synthesiser page.\par
\b REVERSE\b0  - Toggle. Time-reverses the IR for preverb-style effects.\par
\b Waveform display\b0  - Shows the current IR. Drag the trim handles to trim the start/end of the IR (applies to file-loaded IRs).\par
\par

\f1\fs22 2.3 Mix & Reverb Controls\f0\fs22\par
\par
\i [Insert screenshot: Centre panel with Dry/Wet, Predelay, Damping, Stretch, Width, etc.]\i0\par
\par
\b Dry / Wet\b0  (0-100%) - Balance between dry (original) and wet (reverb) signal.\par
\b Predelay\b0  (0-500 ms) - Delay before the reverb starts.\par
\b Damping\b0  (0-100%) - High-frequency damping. Higher = more dull decay.\par
\b Stretch\b0  (0.5-2.0) - Time-stretches the IR. 1.0 = no change.\par
\par

\f1\fs22 2.4 Stereo & Modulation\f0\fs22\par
\par
\b Width\b0  (0-2) - Stereo width of the wet signal. 1 = normal, less than 1 = narrower, greater than 1 = wider.\par
\b LFO Depth\b0  (0-1) - Depth of LFO modulation applied to the tail.\par
\b LFO Rate\b0  (0.01-2 Hz) - Speed of the LFO modulation.\par
\b Tail Mod\b0  (0-1) - Amount of modulation on the reverb tail.\par
\b Delay Depth\b0  (0.5-8 ms) - Modulated delay depth.\par
\b Rate\b0  (0.05-3 Hz) - Rate of tail modulation.\par
\par

\f1\fs22 2.5 IR Input\f0\fs22\par
\par
\b IR Input Gain\b0  (-24 to +12 dB) - Gain applied to the signal before convolution.\par
\b IR Input Drive\b0  (0-1) - Saturation/drive before convolution. Higher values add warmth.\par
\par

\f1\fs22 2.6 Early Reflections & Tail Balance\f0\fs22\par
\par
\b ER (Early Reflections)\b0  (-48 to +6 dB) - Level of the early reflection portion of the IR.\par
\b Tail\b0  (-48 to +6 dB) - Level of the late reverb tail.\par
\par
Use these to rebalance IRs that have strong early or late content.\par
\par

\f1\fs22 2.7 EQ Section\f0\fs22\par
\par
\i [Insert screenshot: EQ graph with three bands]\i0\par
\par
A 3-band parametric EQ shapes the wet reverb:\par
\par
- \b Band 1\b0: Default 400 Hz, variable Q (0.3-10). Cut or boost low-mid.\par
- \b Band 2\b0: Default 1 kHz, variable Q. Mid control.\par
- \b Band 3\b0: Default 4 kHz, variable Q. High-mid / presence.\par
\par
Click band buttons 1, 2, or 3 to select a band; drag on the graph to change frequency and gain, or use the sliders when they appear.\par
\par
\line \par

\f1\fs24 3. IR Synthesiser\f0\fs22\par
\par
Click IR Synth to open the synthesiser page.\par
\par
\i [Insert screenshot: IR Synth page with Placement and Character tabs, floor plan, bottom bar]\i0\par
\par

\f1\fs22 3.1 Placement Tab\f0\fs22\par
\par
\i [Insert screenshot: Placement tab - room shape, dimensions, floor plan]\i0\par
\par
Room Shape: Rectangular, L-shaped, Fan/Shoebox, Cylindrical, Cathedral, Octagonal.\par
\par
Dimensions (metres):\par
- \b Width\b0 (0.5-50 m), \b Depth\b0 (0.5-50 m), \b Height\b0 (1-30 m)\par
\par
Floor Plan: Left/Right speakers (orange pucks) and Left/Right mics (blue pucks). Drag pucks to move; drag the handle to rotate. Positions and angles affect early reflections and stereo image.\par
\par

\f1\fs22 3.2 Character Tab\f0\fs22\par
\par
Surface Materials: 14 materials per surface - Concrete, Painted plaster, Hardwood floor, Carpet (thin/thick), Glass, Heavy curtains, Acoustic ceiling tile, Plywood panel, Upholstered seats, Bare wooden seats, Water/pool surface, Rough stone/rock, Exposed brick.\par
\par
\b Audience\b0 (0-1) - Amount of audience absorption. \b Diffusion\b0 (0-1) - Scattered reflections. Higher = smoother.\par
\par
Vault type, Organ case (0-1), Balconies (0-1).\par
\par
Options: Mic pattern (omni, subcardioid, cardioid, figure-8), Early reflections only (toggle), Sample rate (44.1 or 48 kHz).\par
\par

\f1\fs22 3.3 RT60 Display\f0\fs22\par
\par
Estimated RT60 at 125, 250, 500, 1k, 2k, 4k Hz. Updates as you change materials and dimensions.\par
\par

\f1\fs22 3.4 Bottom Bar\f0\fs22\par
\par
\b IR pick list\b0 - Load existing 4-channel IRs. \b Save\b0 - Saves under the name you type. \b Preview\b0 - Renders and loads, stays on page. \b Done\b0 - Returns to main UI.\par
\par
\line \par

\f1\fs24 4. Technical Explanation: How the IR is Synthesised\f0\fs22\par
\par
P!NG uses a geometric acoustic engine to produce a true-stereo, 4-channel IR (LL, RL, LR, RR) for convolution reverb.\par
\par

\f1\fs22 4.1 Overview\f0\fs22\par
\par
1. Image-source method - Mirror sources for early reflections.\par
2. Per-band rendering - Six octave bands for frequency-dependent absorption.\par
3. Allpass diffusion - Smoothes reflections.\par
4. FDN tail - 16-delay feedback delay network for late reverb.\par
\par

\f1\fs22 4.2 Image-Source Method\f0\fs22\par
\par
Virtual sources mirror the real source across floor, ceiling, and walls. Each reflection has delay (path length / speed of sound) and per-band amplitudes from distance attenuation, floor/ceiling/wall absorption, air absorption, mic polar pattern, speaker directivity (cardioid), and polarity (flipped on odd bounces).\par
\par

\f1\fs22 4.3 Per-Band Rendering\f0\fs22\par
\par
Materials have absorption coefficients at 125-4000 Hz. The engine splits reflections into six bands, applies band-specific absorption, bandpass-filters each band, and sums into a single time series per channel. Produces frequency-dependent decay.\par
\par

\f1\fs22 4.4 Diffusion\f0\fs22\par
\par
A 4-stage allpass diffusion network smooths the summed signal. Higher diffusion increases delay density and reduces flutter.\par
\par

\f1\fs22 4.5 Late Reverb (FDN Tail)\f0\fs22\par
\par
After ~85 ms: Early part from image-source feeds a 16-line FDN. Delays are prime-numbered, scaled by mean free path. LFO modulation reduces metallic resonances. Hadamard mixing distributes energy. Per-line lowpass gives frequency-dependent decay. Early and tail crossfaded at 85 ms.\par
\par

\f1\fs22 4.6 Output\f0\fs22\par
\par
4-channel IR: iLL, iRL, iLR, iRR. Band-limited 20 Hz-18 kHz, normalised, 24-bit WAV. .ping sidecar stores synthesis parameters.\par
\par

\f1\fs22 4.7 RT60 Calculation\f0\fs22\par
\par
Eyring equation: T = 0.161 x V / (-S x ln(1 - a)) where V = volume, S = surface area, a = average absorption. Air absorption, audience, balconies, organ included.\par
\par
\line \par

\f1\fs24 5. IR File Location & Formats\f0\fs22\par
\par
Folder: ~/Documents/P!NG/IRs. Formats: .wav, .aiff, .aif. Synthesised IRs: 4-channel 24-bit WAV. .ping sidecar for parameters.\par
\par

\f1\fs24 6. Presets\f0\fs22\par
\par
Presets store main UI params, IR selection, IR Synth params, EQ. Stored in ~/Documents/P!NG/Presets/.\par
}
